---
layout: post
title: "Tutoro - Automatic Chain Oiler"
date: 2014-09-07 12:48
comments: true
categories: 
- motorcycle
- chain
- oil
---

Ever since I bought my motorcycle in Oktober 2013, I researched a lot about how to properly maintain your motorcycle. Cleaning and lubricating the chain is a big part of that.

Then came the time to apply chain lube on my motorcycle. Guh, that was a big mess. I'll admit I didn't have a rear wheel paddock stand at the time to lift it so I could move the chain while applying it, but damn, it just didn't seem very efficient either.

Because, basically, what you do is apply a large enough amount at once so that you won't have to redo it too soon, causing most of it to just fling of and make your rim and swing arm all black.

I had to find something better. Then I found chain oilers, and more specifically, I found the Tutoro Automatic Chain Oiler.

The reason I went for the Tutoro and not say a Scottoiler (arguably a lot more popular) is that it's just so simple. 

The automatic part means you don't have to manually close and open the valve to flow oil. This is regulated by a weight in the reservoir that moves up & down because of bumps in the road (so there is a benefit to Belgian roads after all..) and the valve determines how much oil you flow each time it is released by the weight. Or at least, that's my understanding.

And it does flow, a lot. I almost have it fully closed most of the time because, I guess, there's just a whole lot of bumps in the road in Belgium. I can tell when it's too much when I find specks of oil on my rim that have flinged off. Looking at the chain itself, honeslty, I couldn't tell apart from the fact that it looks wet.

The oil that Tutoro uses is a little different than the lube you spray from a can. It's a lot more fluid, which from what I gather is better for the chain opposed to more solid lube, but it has the tendency to fling more easily, which is also why you would need something like a chain oiler to make it worthwhile.

Ideally, the chain oiler applies barely enough oil while on the road (with a warmed up chain, which is a plus) to counter the fling (and wash off due to rain) to keep the oil on the chain at a constant level. This is opposed to what you do when you lube it from a cain, i.e. apply a lot at once so that after x amount of km's you'll still have a enough on it.

I've also found this is a lot more economic on your oil/lube. 
